docs/source/guides/using-multiple-configs.rst, before:

Using Multiple Configs
======================

`View on GitHub <https://github.com/GDWR/classy-config/tree/main/examples/multiple_configs>`_

There maybe a time were having multiple config files would allow for cleaner deployment,
readability and/or maintainability.

To accommodate this, ``ClassyConfig`` allows you to prefix your config files to allow them to be
used alongside each other.

So for this example, we have the following two configuration files.

``config.toml``

.. code-block:: toml

    app_name="Example App"


``database.toml``

.. code-block:: toml

    host="127.0.0.1"
    port=5432


This is how they could be loaded, to run alongside each other.

.. code-block:: python

    from classy_config import register_config, ConfigValue

    register_config(filepath="config.toml")  # This will allow gathering of all values, as usual
    register_config(filepath="database.toml", prefix="database")  # This will allow gathering of all values, with the prefix 'database'

    app_name = ConfigValue("app_name", str)
    print(f"Starting application: {app_name}")

    database_host = ConfigValue("db.host", str)
    database_port = ConfigValue("db.port", int)
    print(f"Connecting to database: {database_host}:{database_port}")

Commit message:

Rewrite page showcasing usage of multiple config files
Split example code block into two for easier digestibility
Remove long inline comments in favor of regular documentation text

docs/source/guides/using-multiple-configs.rst, after:

Using Multiple Configs
======================

`View on GitHub <https://github.com/GDWR/classy-config/tree/main/examples/multiple_configs>`_

There are times when having multiple config files would allow for cleaner deployment,
readability, and maintainability of your code base.

To accommodate this, ``ClassyConfig`` allows you to load multiple config files
with designated prefixes, so you can use all the config values alongside each other.

For example, we have the following two separate configuration files:

``config.toml``

.. code-block:: toml

    app_name="Example App"


``database.toml``

.. code-block:: toml

    host="127.0.0.1"
    port=5432


First, load your two configuration files. We'll use the prefix of ``"db"`` for the second one:

.. code-block:: python

    from classy_config import register_config, ConfigValue

    register_config(filepath="config.toml")
    register_config(filepath="database.toml", prefix="db")  # Note the prefix


Now use your config values from both files with ease:

.. code-block:: python

    app_name = ConfigValue("app_name", str)
    print(f"Starting application: {app_name}")

    database_host = ConfigValue("db.host", str)
    database_port = ConfigValue("db.port", int)
    print(f"Connecting to database: {database_host}:{database_port}")
